# ENGL381_CreativeProject
This repository contains my creative project for my Decolonial Worldmaking class.
To view and interact with the poem, click the file titled "Creative Project.ipynb"

The following is my artist statement regarding my project.

The purpose of my creative project is to present a process of decolonization in the form of an interactive poem. The poem is a reflection of an ongoing thought process I have had regarding the colonization of sexuality in our society and in my culture and was inspired to revisit following the Driskill and Whitehead readings. The poem is meant to reflect the thought process I have gone through and continue to go through regarding this topic and the ways in which I continually work at decolonizing the way I have been taught to think of sex and my sexuality. This poem thus is an example of decolonial worldmaking in that my inquiry as to why I think of sexuality the way I do, how settler colonial society has shaped that mentality, and the ways in which I combat this perspective and dismantle it internally to replace it with a personal understanding of my sexuality are all acts of decolonization I am performing. This process of changing my worldview to include a more holistic, undefined, and explorative understanding of my sexuality demonstrates a more decolonized mindset than the one I had prior to my interaction with the Driskill and Whitehead texts.
	I chose to present this poem in a form called a jupyter notebook. Jupyter notebooks are used for coding in a language called Python, which is a language that has open source software, meaning anyone can access its operating software and make changes to it – it is essentially unlicensed, meaning it is free and accessible to anyone who wants to learn it and can be modified to suit a user’s wants and needs. Python is the language I code in largely for this reason, as it is one of the most accessible languages that exists in the programming world, a world I exist in largely. I code using a jupyter notebook weekly for ~5-10 hours, so I’ve customized the interface (what it looks like) in my notebooks so that it is not only aesthetically pleasing to myself since I stare at it for so long, but also so my eyes aren’t strained after looking at it for hours. Unfortunately, that version isn’t shareable in a manner that doesn’t involve using my personal computer to look at it. However, since the size of the font in the notebook as well as what colors are used in images and plotting are controllable, I used this to my advantage for the poem. Being able to play with the way some aspects of the poem came across and trying to draw attention to certain words was an attempt at having some influence over the pace at which the reader interacts with the poem. 
	Additionally, I felt that presenting the poem in a coding format ties together the logical, academic, scientific aspect of myself that exists within academia (the one that uses jupyter notebooks to do classwork and research), with an aspect of myself that I can never physically remove from within, my sexuality. These two seemingly different spheres of existence make up two prominent intersections of my identity that can at times feel opposing, hence the union of them signifying a decolonial act of creating space to exist as a more authentic version of myself within the institution of academia. Because Python is open source, its root code can be modified, which is almost like re-writing its DNA, the way it operates, and so writing about this personal topic using this language represents to me, the decolonial act of re-writing my beliefs and understanding of myself in the context of my sexuality. I am accessing the source code of who I am as a person and re-writing it the way I want it to be re-written. Since the reader is forced to interactively advance through the notebook it makes them a part of this process, drawing them into my act of decolonization, and whether that makes them comfortable, uncomfortable, confused, or anything else, it primarily is meant to get them engaged and thinking. Why I am presenting what I am in the way I am? What is the significance of using a medium like coding? What do these things, the coding and the topic of the poem, say about me as a person? Is there significance in that the reader is playing a part in “advancing” the poem, the content of which is a journey of decolonizing my sexuality? If so, what role do they play? These are all questions I want the reader to be affronted with, which is why I have chosen to present the poem in the manner I have.
